



What is C.....?
C is a general-purpose programming language created by Dennis Ritchie at the Bell Laboratories in 1972.

It is a very popular language, despite being old. The main reason for its popularity is because it is a fundamental language in the field of computer science.

C is strongly associated with UNIX, as it was developed to write the UNIX operating system.

Why Learn C?
It is one of the most popular programming languages in the world
If you know C, you will have no problem learning other popular programming languages such as Java, Python, C++, C#, etc, as the syntax is similar
If you know C, you will understand how computer memory works
C is very fast, compared to other programming languages, like Java and Python
C is very versatile; it can be used in both applications and technologies
Difference between C and C++
C++ was developed as an extension of C, and both languages have almost the same syntax
The main difference between C and C++ is that C++ supports classes and objects, while C does not.



Quick Start...?
Install C
If you want to run C on your own computer, you need two things:

A text editor, like Notepad, to write C code
A compiler, like GCC, to translate the C code into a language that the computer will understand
There are many text editors and compilers to choose from. In the next steps, we will show you how to use an IDE that includes both.

Install IDE
An IDE (Integrated Development Environment) is used to edit AND compile the code.

Popular IDE's include Code::Blocks, Eclipse, and Visual Studio. These are all free, and they can be used to both edit and debug C code.just use a Dev-c IDE


Syntax.....?
You have already seen the following code a couple of times in the first chapters. Let's break it down to understand it better:

Example
#include <stdio.h>

int main() {
  printf("Hello World!");
  return 0;
}
Example explained
Line 1: #include <stdio.h> is a header file library that lets us work with input and output functions, such as printf() (used in line 4). Header files add functionality to C programs.

Don't worry if you don't understand how  #include <stdio.h> works. Just think of it as something that (almost) always appears in your program.

Line 2: A blank line. C ignores white space. But we use it to make the code more readable.

Line 3: Another thing that always appear in a C program is main(). This is called a function. Any code inside its curly brackets {} will be executed.

Line 4: printf() is a function used to output/print text to the screen. In our example, it will output "Hello World!".

Note that: Every C statement ends with a semicolon ;

Note: The body of int main() could also been written as:
int main(){printf("Hello World!");return 0;}

Remember: The compiler ignores white spaces. However, multiple lines makes the code more readable.

Line 5: return 0 ends the main() function.

Line 6: Do not forget to add the closing curly bracket } to actually end the main function.

